

Summer 2018 CS473/673 Project Description 1
CS473/673 Software Engineering Project
Summer 2018

Project Description
In this course, students will work collaboratively on a real-world semester-long project:
a project management tool, preferably as a web-based application. The project
management tool should support agile-like iterative process. The tool is intended to be
used in the academic setting for group-based class projects or research projects. The
tool shall have the following three relatively independent components.
1. Project requirement management tool to manage software requirements (such
as user stories) and related tasks. (similar software: Trello)
2. Project communication tool to facilitate the communication between members
such as a virtual chatting room. (similar software: slack, discussion board)
3. Issue management tool to manage the issues or bugs in the project. (similar
software: issue tracking in github)
Since currently we have about 30 students in the class, we will divide into 5 teams of six
each, working in parallel. To coordinate the group work, each group will have a group
leader and a backup leader. Every member of the team is expected to contribute a
roughly equal share to the project throughout the whole process. The single biggest
determinant of success or failure of a project are the people on your team. Respect your
fellow team members. Commitment to the team is the key.
The instructor will also act as the customer of the project. Initially the customer will only
have a vague project idea. The teams will interact with the customer in order to figure
out what the customer want and deliver what the customer wants. The payment will
not be dollars, but your grades. 
Project Process Description
While several different software development models will be introduced in the lectures,
this project will mainly adopt an iterative and incremental development process . We
will focus on some agile software development methodologies, but also introduce nonagile
approaches and incorporate some into our project as needed. We will have an
initial planning phase, and then three iterations. Each iteration will produce a working
software, and each iteration is a mini-project, involving planning, requirement analysis,
design, coding, and testing. A short presentation with a demo will be required at the end
of each iteration in order to get the feedback from the customer.
Summer 2018 CS473/673 Project Description 2
We will leave about 30 minutes in each class to discuss any issues in project. Each team
should have one or two additional weekly meetings. These meetings may be in person
on on-line. Meeting minutes are required for each. Students should also communicate
with each other through email, phone calls, informal meetings for any questions and
issues. Each student should also submit a weekly status report that records the progress
in each week, plan for the next week and any issues encounter. Meeting minutes and
weekly report can be shared through Google drive.
Initial Planning Phase
1. Meet with your teammates, designate team leaders, other leader roles and
responsibilities for each role as you see fit. Set up communication a plan.
2. Brainstorm the requirements of the project with the customer. Define the
project title and a project vision, including purpose of the application, major
functionalities and requirements etc. Research related work, describe the
challenges, explore feasibility and learn tools. We will use pivotaltracker
(http://www.pivotaltracker.com) or Trello (http://trello.com) as the requirement
analysis tool.
3. Set up project environment which include management tool, development
environment. . We will use GIT as version control tool and github
(https://github.com) to host your project. All documents and code files should be
configuration items and stored in your version control system.
4. Identify risks and risk retirement plan. Estimate the time and prepare an initial
schedule of iterations. Define quality metrics and techniques.
In Each Iteration
1. Planning and Requirement analysis: work with the customer to prioritize the
requirements from the backlog and choose the most important ones to
implement in the current iteration. It is possible to get new requirements from
the customer too. Analyze each requirement; write user stories, the acceptance
test for each requirement. Break down into tasks, and estimate the time for each
task and/or requirement based experience or the previous iteration. Do the
detailed schedule for the current iteration and coarse granularity schedule for
later iterations.
2. Design, implementation and testing: identify design goals, choose the proper
architecture. Identify objects/classes and their attributes and operations. Apply
design patterns to enhance re-usability if applicable. Refactor code on a regular
basis. Apply coding standards across the team, and document source code. You
can use tool such as Javadoc to generate API documentation from the
documented source code files. Test should be in parallel with implementation.
This involves unit testing, integration testing, system testing and acceptance
testing. Each iteration should result in working software that passed all tests. 
Summer 2018 CS473/673 Project Description 3
3. All code and documentation should be peer reviewed at the end of each
iteration.
4. Submission: presentation (with demo), final deployment of your software,
requirement analysis on pivotaltracker, updated documents (weekly report,
meeting minutes), as well as source code (production and test code) on github.
Post iteration self and peer reviews.
